# 11. NDI Administrative Settings

In NDI, administrative settings can be used to limit the rights of almost all NDI tools and also enable NDI settings to be specified by a system administrator without any ability for a user to override them. Here is an overview of these settings and how a system administrator can set them to configure specific machine settings.

The NDI configuration settings are documented in the [Advanced SDK](https://ndi.video/advanced) documentation, and we refer to that to get the full description of each setting.

If any registry key value is missing, it will use the global configuration file on the system, which NDI Access Manager normally configures.

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="331">Registry Key  (all under HKLM)</th><th width="178">Registry Value</th><th width="113">Type</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE/NDI</strong></td><td>MachineName</td><td>String</td><td>A replacement for the local machine name.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE/NDI/Networks</strong></td><td>Discovery Service</td><td>String</td><td>One or more discovery servers to use. Comma-separated.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE/NDI/Networks</strong></td><td>IPs</td><td>String</td><td>Comma-separated list of additional NDI Source Ips.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Adapters</strong></td><td>Allowed</td><td>String</td><td>Comma-separated list of local NIC IP addresses that NDI will attempt to use.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Groups</strong></td><td>Receive</td><td>String</td><td>Comma-separated list of NDI groups that any sources discovered (finder and receiver) will be within.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Multicast\Send</strong></td><td>Mode</td><td>DWORD</td><td>1 when Multicast sending is enabled.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Multicast\Send</strong> </td><td>NetPrefix </td><td>String </td><td>The prefix for the IP address range that will be used. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Multicast\Send</strong> </td><td>NetMask</td><td>String</td><td>The network mask for multicast sending. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Multicast\Send</strong> </td><td>TTL </td><td>DWORD </td><td>The network <a data-footnote-ref href="#user-content-fn-1">TTL</a> for multicast sending. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Multicast\Receive</strong> </td><td>Mode</td><td>DWORD </td><td>1 when multicast receiving is enabled. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Unicast\Send</strong> </td><td>Mode </td><td>DWORD </td><td>1 when sending over <a data-footnote-ref href="#user-content-fn-2">UDP</a> mode  is enabled </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\Unicast\Receive</strong> </td><td>Mode</td><td>DWORD</td><td>1 when receiving over UDP mode is enabled. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\TCP\Send</strong> </td><td>Mode </td><td>DWORD </td><td>1 when sending over Multi-<a data-footnote-ref href="#user-content-fn-3">TCP</a> is enabled. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\TCP\Receive</strong> </td><td>Mode</td><td>DWORD</td><td>1 when receiving over Multi-TCP is enabled. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\RUDP\Send</strong> </td><td>Mode </td><td>DWORD </td><td>1 when sending over Reliable UDP is enabled.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>SOFTWARE\NDI\RUDP\Receive</strong> </td><td>Mode</td><td>DWORD</td><td>1 when receiving over Reliable UDP is enabled. </td></tr></tbody></table>

### **Tools Settings**

All NDI Tools settings are stored under the registry location  `HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\NDI\Pemissions` and are of type DWORD. When set to `1`, they indicate that a feature is allowed, and when they are set to `0,` that feature is disallowed.

<table data-full-width="true"><thead><tr><th width="305">Key name</th><th>Description</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td><strong>app.studiomonitor</strong> </td><td>Is Studio Monitor allowed to be run on this machine</td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.studiomonitor.web</strong> </td><td>Is the web server within studio monitor allowed to be run on this </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.webcamera</strong> </td><td>Is the webcam tool allowed to be run on this machine? </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.scanconverterhx</strong> </td><td>Is Screen Capture HX allowed to be run on this machine. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.scanconverter</strong> </td><td>Is Screen capture allowed to be run on this machine. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.scanconverter.kvm</strong> </td><td>Is the KVM functionality of Screen Capture allowed to be run on this machine.</td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.remote</strong> </td><td>Is NDI remote allowed to be run on this machine?</td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.remote.incoming</strong> </td><td>Are incoming NDI remote connections allowed on this machine, when this is disabled, the machine can only provide links that others can connect to. </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.vlc.video</strong> </td><td>Is VLC video output enabled on this machine? </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.vlc.audio</strong> </td><td>Is VLC audio output enabled on this machine? </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.testpatterns</strong> </td><td>May the test pattern tool be run on this machine? </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.bridge</strong> </td><td>Is NDI bridge allowed to be run on this machine? </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.accessmanager</strong> </td><td>Can Access Manager be run on this machine? </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.adobecc.transmit</strong> </td><td>Can the NDI output plugin be used with Adobe CC </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.adobecc.fileio</strong> </td><td>Can the NDI file IO plugin be used with Adobe CC </td></tr><tr><td><strong>app.vst3</strong> </td><td>Can NDI Audio Direct be used on this machine? </td></tr></tbody></table>

[^1]: **Time to live** (**TTL**) or **hop limit** is a mechanism that limits the lifespan or lifetime of data in a computer or network. TTL may be implemented as a [counter](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Counter\_\(digital\)) or [timestamp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Timestamp) attached to or embedded in the data.&#x20;

[^2]: UDP (User Datagram Protocol) is an alternative protocol to TCP that is used when reliable delivery of data packets is not required.&#x20;

[^3]: TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) is a network communications protocol that enables two host systems to establish a connection and exchange data packets, ensuring that data is delivered to the correct destination.
