# 1. SDK Release Notes

### NDI 5.6.0

Improved forward error correction in multicast and unicast UDP sending.

Improved detection of clients that suddenly disappear within the NDI Discovery server.

Improvements to FPGA reference design. Please refer to the ChangeLog files for more details.

### NDI 5.5.4

Increased reliability when using NVIDIA GPU for hardware-accelerated decoding.

### NDI 5.5.3

Improved performance of audio resampling used in NDI frame sync.

Improved handling of misleading "extra data" within NDI HX video streams.

### NDI 5.5.2

Fixed crash when handling SpeedHQ video within the NDI library on Android.

Bug fix where streams caused reconnections to occur when using RUDP on Android.

Bug fix for issue when initializing RUDP streams on platforms where RUDP is not supported.

Made improvements in mDNS handling on Windows.

Improve responsiveness when establishing new connections in NDI receiver.

Fixed crash in NDI Discovery Server if it was started on a system with no available NICs.

### NDI 5.5.1

Fixed potential instability issue when using a newer version of the NDI|HX driver with older versions of NDI software.

### NDI 5.1.4

Bug fix for issue when initializing RUDP streams on platforms where RUDP is not supported.\
Bug fix when processing certain PA16 video frames.

### NDI 5.1.3

Bug fix in the NDI SDK where decoding 10-bit HEVC on an NVIDIA video card could lead to a crash.&#x20;

### NDI 5.1.2

Bug fix in the NDI SDK where a reported tally change was not notified properly in the NDI sender. Bug fix where the bandwidth for interlaced video was double the intended bandwidth.

### NDI 5.1.1

Fixed a problem in which HX sources might not have been decoded correctly on NVIDIA hardware when asking for RGB output data.

### NDI 5.1.0

Discovery servers may now be specified by a DNS name and not just as an IP address.

The NDI SDK uses typed values for returning “instances” instead of relying on void\*. For most code this will be a change that does not require any updates, however if your code assumes that these types are void\* then you will need to update it. Most importantly however, this avoids the potential for mixing up the types passed into NDI functions which reduces the chances of potential bugs in code that uses the NDI SDK.

Fix memory leak when using “chop” on NDI recording code.

The NDI installer and uninstallers will silently shut down the tools launcher and no longer give you a warning when installing.

The NDI SDK will validate XML messages being sent before they are transmitted, this ensures that there is no vulnerability in which a remote application might be able to crash by sending data that is not XML. The only SDK assumption of course is that down-stream NDI receivers correctly parse XML being received which is something that the SDK is unable to control directly.

Important changes to the performance of RUDP on Linux platforms that enable Generic Segmentation Offload (GSO) for UDP sending, which might also be referred to as UDP\_SEGMENT which was made available in Linux Kernel 4.18. This results in significantly reduced CPU overhead.

Removed limitation on how many NDI senders can be created on a single machine.

### NDI 5.0.11

Version number update to match public launch of NDI Tools that includes NDI Bridge.

MOV files recorded by the NDI SDK or Tools were technically limited to about 14 hours long because the indexes for this file format have a size limitation of 32-bits in “number of clock samples”. By using the extended version of these headers there is no longer any reasonable restriction on the length of recordings.

### NDI 5.0.10

Support for hardware rendering of the mouse cursor in Screen Capture without “trails” and without any performance overhead.

KVM support for applications has been added to the Advanced SDK.\
Support for the latest version of the Adobe CC applications that have been updated.

Reliable UDP sending is likely to use lower CPU usage than previous versions. NDI will take advantage of computer systems with NICs that support hardware accelerated UDP segmentation offload. This can be used to offload much of the CPU burden of high bandwidth UDP sending. Better reliable UDP spreading of sending and receiving across multiple CPU cores.

If you are connected to an NDI discovery server and the network connection is physically lost (i.e., the application or device on one side does not gracefully close the connection), this will now be detected and handled much more quickly than previous versions.

Lower CPU usage in many situations through more efficient use of queues without CPU locking.

The NDI installer on Windows will check whether “Media Foundation” is available on your operating system and notify you if it needs to be installed. There are some local versions of Windows (e.g., Windows 10 Pro N) that might not include this as a default option.

The NDI installer will back up your NDI configuration when it is being installed so that each update to Tools does not wipe out your configuration. When you uninstall NDI Tools completely, the configuration should be completely removed.

Fix on Apple SDKs for cases in which extra data was incorrect in HX2 streams, we now handle this condition gracefully.

Apple SDKs with Free NDI SDK now bring back all the Apple platforms into a single installer which unfortunately significantly increases the install size. It does mean one SDK covers Mac, iPad, iOS, tvOS however.

Android SDK is available for free for use in mobile applications.

### NDI 5.0.9

Launching an NDI application no longer will try to configure the firewall for you unless you have administration privileges. This avoids the potential for the annoying user-access-control dialog to come up each time you launch an NDI application – you are likely still then to see a firewall warning which you will have to click on “Allow” access for, or NDI will not be able to access you network correctly.

The NDI screensaver is now aware of multi-DPI settings when you have multiple monitors on the system with different DPI settings.

Reliable UDP sending is likely to use lower CPU usage than previous versions. NDI will take advantage of computer systems with NICs that support hardware accelerated UDP segmentation offload. This can be used to offload much of the CPU burden of high bandwidth UDP sending.

### NDI 5.0.8

Very significant changes have been made to RUDP sending to allow for much better network utilization on network with high round-trip time or packet loss. In addition, RUDP support has significant updates with much improved performance on WAN and MTU discovery. Significant

improvements to macOS, iOS, and Android have been made. Some important notes have been added to the Advanced SDK documentation regarding how to efficiently send compressed frames to the network under poor conditions with the SDK.

NDI SDK documentation has been updated with comments on performance, particularly related to some ARM platforms.

### NDI 5.0.7

The NDI redistributable that was included with the SDK was not digitally signed, this has been corrected.

A condition was fixed in which Panasonic NDI cameras might not be detected on the network if they had been added after NDI started and had not yet been running for more than a few minutes.

### NDI 5.0.6

Change to the RUDP receiver (and somewhat the sender) to have higher performance on multi-core machines that are under load or running many threads. When possible, we now keep a thread in a wake-able state on each CPU core so that upon receiving data we always know that it can be processed if there is any CPU time on the machine.

A crash that could occur based on timing when applications connected and disconnected from the “Web Cam input” on Windows has been fixed.

The discovery server allows you to specify a port number using the flag “-port 5959”. You can now choose any port you want and in Access Manager or the configuration files you can specify a discovery server address that includes a port number. This allows you for instance to run multiple discovery servers on a single machine that controls different sets of NDI sources.

### NDI 5.0.5

Using NDI | HX v1 cameras with the Bridge Local mode (our transcoder) could cause video artifacts under certain network conditions due to the potential for compressed frames to be missed. This is now no longer possible.

There was an issue where if a configuration file had a NIC filter set up that specified adapter that did not exist on your machine then we would bind to a NIC that does not exist which would fail but might slow down the creation of connections or other possibly symptoms. We now validate the configuration files against the NICs that are on the machine and check that the IP addresses are truly valid before attempting to bind to them.

SDK sample code that shows how to display the average frame time and jitter in the advanced SDK.

### NDI 5.0.4

Reliable UDP sending was always asynchronous in all sending, however it still needed to use a single thread per sending destination to ensure that individual connections could not interfere with other ones (which might have stalled). This is no longer the case and RUDP can now send across all destinations with all buffers in flight without needing any additional threads to service the sending.

### NDI 5.0.3

Improvements to Windows-based audio and video drivers will make them much more robust to applications that are less tolerant of “strange clocking”. In general, this makes things far more robust and should result in much better results. A placeholder image is shown when you are not connected to a source so that the application receives video instead of simply receiving no data.

Importantly, if you are using the Webcam plugins with applications like Skype, Teams or Zoom and you are using audio content that is not just speech, it is important to disable noise suppression and echo cancellation. These effects are designed to make speech more audible against background sounds, however, can also create significant audio artifacts on music or other non-speech content.

Audio support on some much older NDI HX v1 converter devices was not working, this has now been solved.

### NDI 5.0.2

NDI discovery server has an optional parameter that allows you to bind it to a single NIC on your machine for improved security.

NDI discovery server displays output that is designed to be read by another application that might want to provide a UI on top of it.

### NDI 5.0.1

Example code for showing how to connect to a device (as a receiver) and recover the tally state. This makes the implementation of external tally devices very simple. This uses the tally\_echo functionality.

New example code included in NDI Advanced SDK.

RUDP is available as a specific connection type setting on macOS, previously “auto” selected it because it is now the default but there should be a specific setting that enables it.

The “preferred NIC” is not a guarantee that a NIC will be used on all protocols since there are some cases where it might not be possible; this is particularly true for the older transfer protocols. We have extended the support for NIC selection to include more modes and increasing both sides of the connection (both sending and receiving).

Bug fix for a case in which connection sharing might not have always worked, particularly when using loop-back on the local machine. This did not actually cause any visible problem but caused NDI to work a little less efficiently than it should have.

Changes to HX drivers on iOS that make them more compliant with app store rules.

### NDI 5.0.0

The first launch of NDI 5.
